Title: Campbell's Magnolia
Source: Kew
URL: https://www.kew.org/plants/campbells-magnolia

Scientific name: Magnolia Campbellii
Common name: Campbell's magnolia
Family: Magnoliaceae

Description:
Campbell's magnolia is a tall ornamental tree. It has smooth grey bark, long green leaves with a silvery, hairy underside, and very large flowers that range from white to dark pink.
Campbell’s magnolia grows as a tall tree, reaching around 30m tall. The bark is smooth and grey. The leaves are around 25cm in length and around 7cm across, green on the top, and silver-green with silky hairs on the underside. The flowers are white to dark pink, grow up to 35cm across, and have between 12 to 16 tepals, the outer part of the flower similar to petals. The individual tepals are thick, almost rubbery, scoop-shaped and curve inwards. When first appearing, the innermost tepals remain closed around the centre of the flower. Inside, the stamens are a dark purple-red. Flowers first appear in trees over 20 years of age, between March and May.

Plant uses:
1. Cultural:
- Campbell’s magnolia is an incredibly popular ornamental plant, grown in many gardens across the south and west regions of the UK.
2. Food and drink:
- Magnolia flower buds are edible, and can be pickled or dissolved into syrup.

Planted in gardens, parks, and botanical collections as a feature tree.
There are two varieties of Campbell’s magnolia: variety Campbellii, which flowers earlier, and variety Mollicomata, which flowers later.
There are a large number of different cultivars of Campbell’s magnolia, including the Raffill Group, first created by Charles Raffill at Kew Gardens in 1946.

Growing conditions:
- Best suited to temperate gardens with enough space for a large tree.
- Appreciated in sheltered sites where its early flowers are protected from strong weather.

Seasonality
Best time to:
- Flowers: Jan, Feb, Mar, Apr, May, Dec
- Foliage: Mar, Apr, May, Jun, Jul, Aug, Sep, Oct, Nov

Distribution:
- Native: Assam, China South-Central, East Himalaya, Myanmar, Nepal, Tibet

Notes:
Campbell's magnolia is best known for its very large, showy flowers and strong ornamental value.