Title: Cyclamen
Source: Kew
URL: https://www.kew.org/plants/cyclamen

Scientific name: Cyclamen
Common name: Cyclamen
Family: Primulaceae

Description:
Cyclamens are perennial plants that grow around 13cm tall. The leaves can be round, oval or heart-shaped, with green and silver patterns on the upper side, and green or red coloring on the lower side. The flowers can be purple to pink to white, have five petals that connect at the base in a cup, and grow facing downwards on long dark flower stalks. If pollinated, the flower turns into a capsule that splits open when it matures. The seeds are sugary and attract foraging insects that distribute them away from the parent plant. The plant grows from a small tuber, between 2 to 24cm across.
Cyclamens are perennial plants with decorative leaves that often have green and silver patterns. Their flowers face downward and are usually pink, purple, or white.
Bringing a splash of color to autumn, winter and spring, the cyclamen is a gardener's favorite.
It's hard to miss their characteristic white, pink and purple flowers in the wild, growing on verges and in woodlands during the colder months.
There are 23 different species of cyclamen (as well as numerous cultivars), including C. persicum, C. hederfolium and C. coum.
In some parts of Europe, cyclamens have the common name ‘sow bread’, as pigs would root up the tubers for food.

Plant uses:
1. Ornamental:
- Very popular as garden and pot plants.
- Valued for flowers and patterned foliage.

2. Cultural:
- Cyclamen are popular ornamental plants, especially during winter.
- In the past, cyclamens were linked to love, sex and fertility, and used in traditional love potions across Europe.

Growing conditions:
- Well suited to shaded or partly shaded locations.
- Prefer loose, well-drained soil.
- Poor drainage can damage the tubers.

Seasonality:
Many cyclamen are valued as seasonal flowering plants.

Distribution:
- Native: Albania, Algeria, Austria, Baleares, Bulgaria, Corse, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, East Aegean Is., France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iran, Italy, Kriti, Krym, Lebanon-Syria, Libya, Morocco, North Caucasus, Palestine, Poland, Sardegna, Sicilia, Somalia, South European Russi, Switzerland, Transcaucasus, Tunisia, Türkiye, Yugoslavia
- Introduced: Belgium, Great Britain, Ireland, Oregon, Romania, Ukraine
- Extinct: Spain

Notes:
Cyclamen are especially useful for shaded garden spaces.
The name ‘cyclamen’ comes from the Greek kyklos, meaning circle, which refers to the circular tuber the plants grow from.
Spring-flowering species of cyclamen include C. repandum, C. cyprium and C. balearicum. Winter-flowering species include C. coum and C. alpinum. Autumn-flowering species include C. africanum, C. graecum, C. rohlfsianum and C. herderifolium.