Title: English Lavender
Source: Kew
URL: https://www.kew.org/plants/english-lavender
Last checked: 2026-04-11

Scientific name: Lavandula Angustifolia
Common name: English Lavender
Family: Lamiaceae

Description:
English lavender is a flowering plant in the mint family. It is well known for its fragrant purple flowers and aromatic leaves. It is commonly grown in gardens and is valued for both its beauty and its scent.

Plant uses
1. Beauty and cosmetics:
	- Lavender essential oils are used in a range of soaps, perfumes, lotions and other cosmetics due to its fragrant scent.
2. Cultural:
	- Lavender is a symbol for the gay community, starting in the early part of the 20th century, when gay men were referred to as 'lavender boys' as they were not considered truly masculine. This led to both the color and flower become a symbol of empowerment and resistance in the LGBTQ+ community.
3. Food and drink:
	- Both the flower buds and the green leaves and stems of lavender are used in herbal teas.
	- Lavender honey is produced by bees exclusively visiting lavender plants.
	- Lavender is often used in sweet desserts, like cakes, shortbreads and even ice cream.
English lavender is used in gardens, beauty and cosmetics, and sometimes in food and drink. It is also associated with calming fragrance products and decorative planting.
4. Health: 
	- Lavender is used in a huge number of aromatherapy-based products, such as candles and oil burners, for its relaxing properties. Lavender works as an antiseptic and anti-inflammatory.

Related plants:
It belongs to the mint family, which also includes mint, rosemary, and sage.

Growing conditions:
English lavender usually prefers a sunny location and well-drained soil. It is often grown in borders, herb gardens, and containers.

Seasonality
Best time to see:
	- Flowers: Jun, Jul, Aug
	- Foliage: Jan, Feb, Mar, Apr, May, Jun, Jul, Aug, Sep, Oct, Nov, Dec

Distribution
Where in the world:
	- Native: France, Italy, Spain
	- Introduced: Austria, Bulgaria, East Aegean Is., Germany, Krym, Marianas, New York, Tunisia, Venezuela, Vermont, West Himalaya

Notes:
Lavender is popular because it combines ornamental value, fragrance, and practical use.