Title: Fire Lily
Source: Kew
URL: https://www.kew.org/plants/fire-lily

Scientific name: Cyrtanthus ventricosus
Common name: Fire lily
Family: Amaryllidaceae

Description:
Fire lily is a bulbous plant with striking orange-red flowers that hang in nodding clusters. The leaves grow in winter and die back as the habitat dries in summer.
Rising from the ashes after fires, the fire lily creates vibrant red and pink displays across the Cape Fold Mountains of South Africa.
Fire lilies form part of the fynbos, a biodiverse belt of heathland that runs through the Western and Eastern Cape.
A key part of the local ecosystem, fire lilies are exclusively pollinated by the Table Mountain pride butterfly (Aeropetes tulbaghia).
The fire lily grows from a bulb, producing nodding heads of large, orange-red flowers on stems that are up to 20cm tall. It flowers after wildfires in dry summer seasons, appearing within two weeks of a fire. After a week, the flowers are replaced by dry capsules of wind-dispersed, winged black seeds. The grassy leaves grow during the winter season, dying back as the habitat dries in summer.
Sunbirds are sneaky companions to the fire lily; they pierce holes at the base of their flowers to eat the nectar without pollinating them, otherwise known as 'nectar robbing'.

Plant uses:
1. Ornamental:
- Admired for its vivid flowers and dramatic fire-linked life cycle.

2. Cultural:
- Bulbs of plants from across the genus Cyrtanthus are used in traditional medicines for coughs, headaches and wound healing, as well as love charms.

Ecology:
- Fire lily is closely linked to seasonal fire.
- It flowers very soon after fire and produces seed afterwards.
- It is part of the fynbos vegetation of South Africa.

Growing conditions:
- Associated with dry mountain habitats in South Africa.
- Adapted to a fire-prone environment.
- Fire-prone fynbos shrubland, on south facing slopes.

Seasonality:
Flowers appear rapidly after seasonal fires.

Distribution:
Native range: Cape Fold Mountains of South Africa

Notes:
Fire lily is famous for flowering after fire, making it one of the most dramatic examples of fire-adapted flowering plants.
Research into the fire lily found that exposure to smoke appeared to be the key element in triggering flowering.
The stem of the fire lily is hollow, meaning it is structurally strong while being quick to develop. This allows the flower to bloom very rapidly after fire.
Due to its reliance on fire to bloom, the fire lily is incredibly challenging to cultivate outside of its natural habitat.
The scientific name of the genus Cyrtanthus means 'curved flower', a reference to the nodding shape of the flowers in bloom.