Title: Garden Sage
Source: Kew
URL: https://www.kew.org/plants/garden-sage

Scientific name: Salvia Officinalis
Common name: Sage
Family: Lamiaceae

Description:
Evergreen, bushy shrub with short spikes of purplish-blue flowers. The fruits are held in papery seed pods containing small, round, brown or black seeds. The grey-green, oblong leaves are very aromatic. They are wrinkled on the upper side whilst on the underside, they are covered in many short, soft hairs and almost white in color.
Sage is a fragrant herb in the mint family. It has soft, grey-green leaves and is known for both culinary and ornamental value.

Plant uses
1. Cultural:
	- Garden sage is grown as an ornamental plant for its pretty, purple flowers and aromatic leaves.
2. Food and drink:
	- Garden sage is a popular herb for cooking. It adds a unique, slightly peppery flavor to dishes.
	- In British and American cooking, garden sage is traditionally added to stuffing which accompanies Christmas, Thanksgiving, and classic Sunday roast dinners.
3. Health:
	- Fresh leaves from garden sage have been used to make a tea considered to help relieve colds, flus, and sore throats.
Sage is used in cooking, herb gardens, and ornamental planting. It is also appreciated for its scent and traditional association with herbal use.

Related plants:
Sage is related to rosemary, lavender, and mint.

Growing conditions:
Sage generally prefers sunny locations and well-drained soil. It is often grown in herb gardens, dry borders, and containers.

Seasonality
Best time to see:
	- Flowers: Jun, Jul, Aug
	- Foliage: Jan, Feb, Mar, Apr, May, Jun, Jul, Aug, Sep, Oct, Nov, Dec

Distribution
Where in the world:
	- Native: Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Montenegro, North Macedonia, Serbia, Slovenia, Spain, Switzerland
	- Introduced: Alabama, Algeria, Austria, Azores, Baleares, Bulgaria, California, Canary Islands, Connecticut, Czech Republic, Georgia, Idaho, Kentucky, Korea, Libya, Maine, Michigan, Morocco, New York, Ohio, Ontario, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Portugal, Qubec, Rhode Island, Romania, Sardinia, Sicily, Slovakia, South European Russia, Tennessee, Transcaucasia, Tunisia, Türkiye-in-Europe, Ukraine, Uruguay, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia

Notes:
Sage is useful for a plant bot because it combines herb, flower, scent, and garden value.